Add instructions for webview camera (#1209)
dotnet/docs-maui: docs/user-interface/controls/webview.md

> [!NOTE]
> Despite the `Source` property being of type `WebViewSource`, the property can be set to a string-based URI. This is because .NET MAUI includes a type converter, and an implicit conversion operator, that converts the string-based URI to a `UrlWebViewSource` object.

:::zone pivot="devices-windows"

<!-- blank pivot to skirt the dumb warning about using every pivot type -->

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="devices-ios, devices-maccatalyst"

> ### Configure App Transport Security on iOS and Mac Catalyst

Reviewer: I think this should be promoted to a H2, so it shows up in the nav (for the iOS/Mac pivot).

Since version 9, iOS will only allow your app to communicate with secure servers. An app has to opt into enabling communication with insecure servers.

The following *Info.plist* configuration shows how to enable a specific domain to bypass Apple Transport Security (ATS) requirements:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD010 -->
```xml

> 	<key>NSAppTransportSecurity</key>

Reviewer: You can left-align this (it's indented on the preview site).

	<dict>
		<key>NSExceptionDomains</key>
		<dict>
			<key>mydomain.com</key>
			<dict>
				<key>NSIncludesSubdomains</key>
				<true/>
				<key>NSTemporaryExceptionAllowsInsecureHTTPLoads</key>
				<true/>
				<key>NSTemporaryExceptionMinimumTLSVersion</key>
				<string>TLSv1.1</string>
			</dict>
		</dict>
	</dict>
```

It's best practice to only enable specific domains to bypass ATS, allowing you to use trusted sites while benefitting from additional security on untrusted domains.

The following *Info.plist* configuration shows how to disable ATS for an app:

```xml

> 	<key>NSAppTransportSecurity</key>

Reviewer: You can left-align this (it's indented on the preview site).

- `Navigating`, which is raised when page navigation starts. The `WebNavigatingEventArgs` object that accompanies the `Navigating` event defines a `Cancel` property of type `bool` that can be used to cancel navigation.
- `Navigated`, which is raised when page navigation completes. The `WebNavigatedEventArgs` object that accompanies the `Navigated` event defines a `Result` property of type `WebNavigationResult` that indicates the navigation result.

:::zone pivot="devices-android"

## Handle permissions on Android

> When browsing to a page that requests access to the device's recording hardware, such as the camera or microphone, permission must be granted by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.WebView> control. The `WebView` control uses the <xref:Android.Webkit.WebChromeClient?displayProperty=fullName> type to handle requests. However, the default `WebChromeClient` provided by .NET MAUI ignores permission requests. You must create a new type that inherits from `WebChromeClient` and approves the permission requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When browsing to a page that requests access to the device's recording hardware, such as the camera or microphone, permission must be granted by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.WebView> control. The `WebView` control uses the <xref:Android.Webkit.WebChromeClient?displayProperty=fullName> type on Android to react to permission requests. However, the `WebChromeClient` implementation provided by .NET MAUI ignores permission requests. You must create a new type that inherits from `MauiWebChromeClient` and approves the permission requests.
```

The following steps demonstrate how to intercept permission requests from the `WebView` control to use the camera. If you are trying to use the microphone, the steps would be similar except that you would use microphone-related permissions instead of camera-related permissions.

01. First, add the required app permissions to the Android manifest. Open the _Platforms/Android/AndroidManifest.xml_ file and add the following in the `manifest` node:

    ```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
    ```

01. At some point in your app, such as when the page containing a `WebView` control is loaded, request permission from the user to allow the app access to the camera.

    ```csharp

>     private async void RequestCameraPermission()

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be async Task rather than async void?

    {
        PermissionStatus status = await Permissions.CheckStatusAsync<Permissions.Camera>();
    
        if (status != PermissionStatus.Granted)
            await Permissions.RequestAsync<Permissions.Camera>();
    }
    ```

01. Add the following class to the _Platforms/Android_ folder:

    ```csharp
    using Android.Webkit;
    
    namespace MauiAppWebViewHandlers.Platforms.Android;
    

>     internal class MyWebChromeClient: WebChromeClient

Reviewer: This should inherit from `MauiWebChromeClient`, otherwise you lose some other bits of functionality that have specifically been enabled in MAUI.

It should be:

```
using Android.Webkit;
using Microsoft.Maui.Platform;
using Microsoft.Maui.Handlers;
     
namespace MyWebTestApp.Platforms.Android;

internal class MyWebChromeClient : MauiWebChromeClient
{
    public MyWebChromeClient(IWebViewHandler handler) : base(handler)
    {
    }

    public override void OnPermissionRequest(PermissionRequest request)
    {
        // Process each request
        foreach (var resource in request.GetResources())
        {
            // Check if the web page is requesting permission to the camera
            if (resource.Equals(PermissionRequest.ResourceVideoCapture, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
            {
                // Get the status of the .NET MAUI app's access to the camera
                PermissionStatus status = Permissions.CheckStatusAsync<Permissions.Camera>().Result;

                // Deny the web page's request if the app's access to the camera is not "Granted"
                if (status != PermissionStatus.Granted)
                    request.Deny();
                else
                    request.Grant(request.GetResources());

                return;
            }
        }

        base.OnPermissionRequest(request);
    }
}
```

    {
        public override void OnPermissionRequest(PermissionRequest request)
        {
            // Process each request
            foreach (var resource in request.GetResources())
            {
                // Check if the web page is requesting permission to the camera
                if (resource.Equals(PermissionRequest.ResourceVideoCapture, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
                {
                    // Get the status of the .NET MAUI app's access to the camera
                    PermissionStatus status = Permissions.CheckStatusAsync<Permissions.Camera>().Result;
    
                    // Deny the web page's request if the app's access to the camera is not "Granted"
                    if (status != PermissionStatus.Granted)
                        request.Deny();
                    else
                        request.Grant(request.GetResources());
    
                    return;
                }
            }
    
            base.OnPermissionRequest(request);
        }
    }
    ```

>     In the previous snippet, the `MyWebChromeClient` class inherits from `WebChromeClient`, and overrides the `OnPermissionRequest` method to intercept web page permission requests. Each permission item is checked to see if it matches the `PermissionRequest.ResourceVideoCapture` string constant, which represents the camera. If a camera permission is matched, the code checks to see if the app has permission to use the camera. If it has permission, the web page's request is granted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the previous snippet, the `MyWebChromeClient` class inherits from `MauiWebChromeClient`, and overrides the `OnPermissionRequest` method to intercept web page permission requests. Each permission item is checked to see if it matches the `PermissionRequest.ResourceVideoCapture` string constant, which represents the camera. If a camera permission is matched, the code checks to see if the app has permission to use the camera. If it has permission, the web page's request is granted.
```

> 01. Use the <xref:Android.Webkit.WebView.SetWebChromeClient%2Ae> method on the Android's `WebView` control to set the chrome client to `MyWebChromeClient`. The following two items demonstrate how you can set the chrome client:

Author: ```suggestion
01. Use the <xref:Android.Webkit.WebView.SetWebChromeClient%2A> method on the Android's `WebView` control to set the chrome client to `MyWebChromeClient`. The following two items demonstrate how you can set the chrome client:
```

>     - If you assign a name to the .NET MAUI `WebView` control, you can set the chrome client directly on the platform view, which is the Android control:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Given a .NET MAUI `WebView` control named `theWebViewControl`, you can set the chrome client directly on the platform view, which is the Android control:
```

Reviewer: I was thinking the above so that it covers both XAML + C# cases.

      ```csharp

>       ((IWebViewHandler)theWebViewControl.Handler).PlatformView.SetWebChromeClient(new MyWebChromeClient());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ((IWebViewHandler)theWebViewControl.Handler).PlatformView.SetWebChromeClient(new MyWebChromeClient((IWebViewHandler)theWebViewControl.Handler));
```

Reviewer: I'd check that the code I inserted above works (I tried the 2nd option, but not the first).

      ```

    - You can also use handler property mapping to force all `WebView` controls to use your chrome client. For more information, see [Handlers](../handlers/index.md).

      The following snippet's `CustomizeWebViewHandler` method should be called when the app starts, such as in the `MauiProgram.CreateMauiApp` method.

      ```csharp
      private static void CustomizeWebViewHandler()
      {
      #if ANDROID

>           Microsoft.Maui.Handlers.WebViewHandler.Mapper.AppendToMapping("WebChromeClient", (handler, view) =>

Reviewer: This should be using `ModifyMapping` rather than `AppendToMapping` as it's modifying an existing property mapping, rather than adding a new one. I also think the string argument should be specified using `nameof` so it doesn't look like a magic string:

```
using AndroidWebView = Android.Webkit.WebView;
       Microsoft.Maui.Handlers.WebViewHandler.Mapper.ModifyMapping(nameof(AndroidWebView.WebChromeClient), (handler, view, args) =>
        {
            handler.PlatformView.SetWebChromeClient(new MyWebChromeClient(handler));
        });
```

Reviewer: Ignore my dodgy formatting above :)

>           Microsoft.Maui.Handlers.WebViewHandler.Mapper.AppendToMapping("WebChromeClient", (handler, view) =>

Reviewer: One more thing. Switching to using `nameof(AndroidWebView.WebChromeClient)` revealed that `AndroidWebView.WebChromeClient` was only added in API 26, despite MAUI supporting down to API 21. So we'll need a note (or something) here to specify that it's API 26+.
